The goal of Task 2 (TriMet's IMI project) is to improve real-time arrival predictions by way of machine learning, which incorporates real-time arrival prediction data, historical (actual) arrival data, traffic / street speed data, weather data, etc... (See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Tv5Le6xWS72BCQ290TXgej9sQt3hfVpKbDrogzmuw3I)

These machine learning models use a sequential transit-stop to transit-stop segmentation, based on trip and pattern information. The speed data comes from the vendor INRIX, whose street map is segmented into different traffic segments. An initial step is performed to 'conflate' these INRIX street segments (which individually is how the real-time traffic / speed data is queried) to our transit stop to stop segments. In many cases, multiple INRIX segments will be assigned to a given stop-to-stop transit segment; but that's not always true .. I know of one very long INRIX segment that spans multiple stop-to-stop segments. This map shows the transit and INRIX segments atop one another: https://opentransittools.github.io/trafficdb/#13.75/45.51372/-122.67976/0/23 (it also shows that the current conflation routine is less than perfect and needs a bit more tweaking). These diagrams https://github.com/OpenTransitTools/trafficdb/blob/master/docs/StopSegmentsToSpeedData.pdf are a bit messy, but attempt to illustrate the matching of stop-to-stop with traffic segment data.

Once we have a list of INRIX segments that match up to our stop-to-stop data, we can query INRIX's services for real-time traffic / speed data. We've been querying INRIX every 3 seconds for updated speed information across our list of segments, and feeding that speed information into the ML models. These are the initial fresults we're seeing: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18LxnV1-NykQWnwvaiDJuhSAqjw1vE7vv-kY9Czyi0Po/edit#gid=1364826426
